---
layout: post
title: "Week (8 + )9: Life in the COVID-19 Era"
---

## Group Project Progress

Sylvia and I were able to setup a meet and discuss the project in a bit more detail since we last left off. Honestly, with how long of a gap and how much stuff happened in between, it was more of a refresher than anything. We were able to come up with quite a few points on why we thought Lemmy would be a good idea. We know that there is definitely going to be a bit of a learning curve with this project, because it uses tools and languages that we haven't learned before. However, we are not completely discouraged by it because both of us have some C/C++ knowledge to help with Rust and Sylvia has some JS knowledge to help with TS.Sylvia also seemed excited about there being translation opportunities, while I was pretty stoked about learning Rust. There actually has been another project that I've been wanting to get involved in, which primarily relies on Rust.

We found a new meeting time that works for both of us and were able to come up with a weekly plan. Frankly, the turbulence of the past two weeks has made me feel as if our group is slightly behind, but I'm now a bit more settled and more determined to have us catch up and make some real progress with our group project.

The two of us tried to get in contact with the project manager in hopes to get a bit of guidance. We first realized he didn't have his e-mail posted anywhere, so we had to use a different tool to connect with him. He had his credentials for something called "Matrix Chat" put up. This led us to a platform that looked a lot like Slack, so we concluded that this was most likely a Slack-like tool but probably open-source and/or more privacy focused.

Unfortunately, I feel as if I may have bungled our first contact. I clicked on the contributor's name, which led to creating a chat room with just the two of us (incredibly awkward). He sent a message saying that the tool he was using did not allow for private chat rooms or direct messages, and then he left the chat room. Sylvia and I (actually mostly I) felt pretty embarrassed about that interaction and have decided to *not* make contact for the time being. Hopefully, we can chat with him under a more productive circumstance.

## Unasked Updates of my Life

This is more of an (unrelated to class) rapid, bullet-point sharing of the things I experienced in Week 8. It's just me talking into the void and trying to get a laugh out of a potential reader.

* NYU leadership, in their *infinite wisdom* decided to close dorms. Exceptions were provided, but we were grimly reminded that the "bar will be high". Terrible PR imo.
* I found someone on Reddit to come pick up all the extra food we had in our dorms, which was super cool
* On my flight to India, the guy to the left of me sure was coughing a lot
* He eventually puked into the empty cup of the passenger to the left of him
* I got a nicer seat (but at what expense?)
* I haven't lived in India for longer than 2 months (that was when I was born) and now I'm here indefinitely
* My dad flipped a shed to make it livable so I could self-isolate upon my arrival
* The cops showed up because some dude (me) showed up to a usually empty property and started living there. Fair enough.
* I now have health officials assigned to me to check on my health, which is nice.
* I felt like a zoo animal because the neighbors would look out from their roofs at me and kids were taking photos of me.
* India has gone into lockdown, which thankfully means I can self-isolate at home and not where I was originally placed.
* I learned that the loud bird chirping sound was in fact not an incredibly talented and excited bird on my front porch but simply the alarm clock on my new speaker. I learned this on Day 8.
